# Homework 6: Reflecton

- Due on Saturday, September 21 at 11:59pm
- Weight: 8% of total grade

<br>

**Write**: Reflect on your previous work and how you would adjust to include ethics and inequity components. Total length should be a few paragraphs, no more than one page.


Throughout the various roles I’ve held at the University I was often the de facto data steward as I was the closes to the information our central systems, and had the ability to query and access a lot of personal and academic information. This includes information on people I know as well as information that could be beneficial to me when I was a student. While I have always been principled in handling this responsibility, these experiences have highlighted the need for stronger guidelines and checks on access to sensitive data including stronger messaging and training before being granted access to the information as simply signing off on a consent form may not always be enough. This, however, needs to take into account and balance operational needs which oftentimes prioritize speed and efficiency over thoroughness. It’s crucial to establish clear boundaries and oversight mechanisms to ensure that data is handled ethically, minimizing any potential for misuse or bias. Implementing these safeguards would reinforce the integrity of our roles as stewards of sensitive information.

Another example of ethics and inequity issues I’ve encountered in my work was when I was once asked in earnest to provide the dean with a list of BIPOC students so that they could send out a message to these students during the height of 2020’s social unrest. The intent was to send a supportive message, but the request itself raised red flags. Thankfully, that data was not available and I could not fulfill the request. In hindsight, this situation highlighted a more principled approach for handling requests involving demographic data. While I do not have an answer or a way forward for this, I personally feel that collecting such information in a way that can be used to identify individuals is unethical in some way in that this information can be used for evil as well as good, and that possibility should not exist, unless it is an absolute necessity. In this case, we resolved the situation by using the list of all students for the mailing, rather than a list that targeted specific students in minority groups. 

Incorporating inequity and ethics into data isn’t just about protecting information but also about challenging norms placed on us by our employers, workplaces, and the broader socioeconomic system we find ourselves in. Going forward, I need to be mindful of the information that I am providing and ensure that it does not infringe on people’s lives, privacy, and is guided with the principle respect for all. That being said, my academic background is in philosophy so I feel that my approach is largely grounded in these foundations, so I am very much curious how these ethical issues are approached by those from a more technical background (if they recognize those issues as such, what are implications they draw, etc). 